“We may actually have been underestimating how much warmer [the Arctic’s]
been getting,” said Gavin Schmidt, who directs NASA’s Goddard Institute for
Space Studies, which keeps the temperature data, and who was a co-author of
the new study released in Environmental Research Letters.

Notably, AIRS sometimes shows more warming than the NASA data set, and
especially does so in the Arctic, a region where measurements are scarce
and warming is fastest. Shockingly, it even finds that over the Barents and
Kara seas in the Arctic, the warming trend is at a rate of 2.5 degrees
Celsius — or 4.5 degrees Fahrenheit — per decade.

“These findings should help put to rest any lingering concerns that modern
warming is somehow due to the location of sensors in urban heat islands or
other measurement errors at the surface,” said Zeke Hausfather, a
researcher at the University of California at Berkeley who works on another
of the temperature data sets — called Berkeley Earth — and commented on the
new study, with which he was not involved.

“The AIRS satellite data captures the whole surface of the planet and shows
that, if anything, our surface measurements are slightly underestimating
the rate of modern warming,” he said.

The study also reinforces "that the Arctic is warming much faster than the
rest of the world, and that correctly estimating temperatures in the region
is important to understanding what is happening to the world as a whole,”
Hausfather said.

The new research “confirms (yet again) from an independent source that the
surface temperature records over the past couple of decades are robust,”
added Ed Hawkins, a climate researcher at the University of Reading in
Britain, by email.

The methodologies used to calculate Earth’s temperature are being improved
all the time — and the data sets are constantly updated with the most
recent information. Lively debates will persist about how to deal with some
of the problems involved in this process, such as that cities tend to be
warmer than the countryside, and that records are far more numerous and
reliable today than they were at the close of the 19th century or a little
bit before it, when the data sets begin.

But the new study suggests none of this weakens the major conclusion:
Warming is ongoing; and Earth keeps pushing record temperature highs, at
least in the context of the past 140 years or so.

“For all the issues that there are, the patterns are not just qualitatively
right, they’re pretty much quantitatively right, too,” Schmidt said.

